--- PAGE 1 ---
Thomson Reuters Data Science Challenge

Welcome to the Thomson Reuters Data Science Challenge!

Scientists at TR Labs work with a diverse group of stakeholders on applied research projects.
We value rigor and reproducibility, as well as the ability to present a compelling analysis. For
this data challenge, you will develop an exploratory model on a real dataset. You should
envision handing off the project to a colleaguewithout the opportunity to
communicate. This scenario emphasizes the importance of clearly documenting your ideas and
observations.

The following criteria will be considered.

1. Reproducibility
2. Clear, concise explanations of key decisions and findings
3. Accurate characterizations of expected performance

4. Discussion of alternative approaches you might try given more time
If you utilize any found code or analysis in submission, please cite your sources appropriately.

Finally, to ensure a fair and equal recruiting process, please don't share the challenge or your
solution with anyone else.

About the Task

This data challenge is designed to emulate the kinds of analyses we do fairly often in Labs.
Since Thomson Reuters’ Westlaw is a premier legal research platform, we are often asked to
model legal concepts in judicial opinions or briefs. Your assignment will focus on a particular
concept known as “procedural posture.”

The procedural posture of a case is a summary of how the case arrived before the court. It
describes the procedural history including any prior decisions under appeal.

--- PAGE 2 ---
The dataset you will download contains judicial decisions which have been manually annotated
with labels to indicate the procedural posture. The table below shows the top ten most frequent
postures in this dataset, as well as a measure of annotator agreement for each category.

Posture

Appellate Review (Criminal)

Motion for Attorney’s Fees

Sentencing or Penalty Phase Motion or Objection

On Appeal (Civil)

Review of Administrative Decision

Motion to Dismiss for Lack of Subject Matter Jurisdiction

Motion for Preliminary Injunction

Motion to Dismiss

Post-Trial Hearing Motion

Trial or Guilt Phase Motion or Objection

Kappa

0.93

0.86

0.84

0.84

0.83

0.81

0.80

0.79

0.77

0.63

Please answer the following questions and include your report, all code, documentation,
and instructions required to run your solution in the uploaded zip file. You do not need to
upload data. Please also delete your local copy of the data when you are done.

Question 1

- Download the data here: TRDataChallenge2023.zip. Note that this zip contains a single text

file in JSON Lines format.

- Programmatically read the data into your preferred analytical environment.

--- PAGE 3 ---
- Report the number of documents, number of postures, and the number of paragraphs in the
dataset.

- Describe the data and any aspects relevant to the modeling task in Question 2.

Question 2

Our business partners would like to automate the labeling of judicial opinions with procedural
postures. You are being asked to perform an initial exploration to inform feasibility.

- Given the dataset provided, build a model that achieves the desired automation.
- Analyze the performance of your model, including strengths/weaknesses.

- Make a recommendation to the business about the feasibility of this task based on your
observations in the analysis.

Please bear in mind: This intended to be an exploratory model. State of the art results are not
expected. Characterizing how the model performs is more important than achieving the highest
possible performance.

Question 3

Regardless of the feasibility determination in Question 2, assume your stakeholders are
satisfied with the initial results and want to proceed with this project. Now they are asking for
next steps. You can either decide to (a) conduct additional experiments to improve / validate
the model OR (b) start the process to put this model in production. Either choice is acceptable
for this question. Whichever you choose, think through the next steps in some detail, as though
you were planning to complete the work.

- Describe the next steps for this project in a manner accessible to both technical and non-
technical audiences.

- Be sure to motivate each step you recommend.

- Identify potential challenges that may need to be addressed for the next steps to be
successful.

Thank you for taking the time to complete this assignment!

You should have received a task in your candidate home account to upload your zip file with
your report, all code, documentation, and instructions. Click here to Sign In and Submit Data
Science Challenge.
